# Incident: Pizza Order Failure 2026-04-02 11:50–11:59
## Summary

From 11:50 AM to 11:59 AM MDT on April 2, 2026, users were temporarily unable to order pizzas from https://pizza.joeldemars.com. The issue was caused by chaos testing being triggered at the pizza factory backend located at https://pizza-factory.cs329.click. The issue was identified at 11:56 and resolved at 11:59 by following the incident reporting link returned by the factory.

## Detection

The incident was detected at 11:56, when I opened my JWT Pizza website to test if it was working properly. I had been running the generateTraffic.sh script with the idea that when it failed to order pizza, it would trigger the alarm. However, the script didn't order pizzas at a rate high enough to trigger the alarms I had set, so (though I was checking the output of the script frequently to see whether the pizza orders succeeded or not), the fact that I happened to check the functionality of the site within six minutes of it breaking was mostly a matter of luck. This will be improved by changing the threshold of the alerts to trigger at the rate of failure in the script.


## Impact

Throughout the course of the incident, no users were able to purchase pizzas. 10 orders were sent by the script that failed, in addition to several orders made by myself while testing. No other orders were placed or failed.

## Timeline

All times are in MDT.

```
11:50 AM: The factory started returning 500 responses and the first failed order was placed.
11:56 AM: I decide to manually test the site and find that the factory request failed. Upon checking the output of the script, I see that recent calls to the factory have returned 500 errors
11:59 AM: I follow the link from the logs in my Grafana dashboard and the chaos is resolved. Tests show that further factory requests are successful.
```

## Response

I alone carried out the fix (there are no other members on the team). Having read through the code for the order endpoint of the API, I was fairly certain that the way to fix the chaos was to follow a link returned in the factory response payload. So, when the factory failures were identified, I went directly to the Grafana dashboard to find the link in the logs. My suspicions proved correct and the issue was resolved.

## Root cause

The issue was caused by a failure of the pizza factory backend, which in turn was caused by me enabling chaos testing in the factory.

## Resolution

As noted above, the primary delay in resolution was the fact that the alert did not trigger. Therefore, adjusting the threshold would be the biggest difference; in this case, the recovery may have been as fast as three minutes. Potentially, if it were a recurring or consistent issue, I could change the behavior of the backend to automatically follow the reporting URL, automatically resolving the issue.

## Prevention

To prevent this issue in the future, I will not enable chaos testing in the future.

## Action items

In order to avoid the issue in the future, I will not initiate chaos testing in the future. I have already decreased the rate threshold for the alarm to allow similar problems to be fixed more quickly in the future.
